External Assets Concept Page (#16935)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/concepts/assets/external-assets.mdx

## Defining External Assets

### A single external asset

The following code declares a single external asset and passes it to <PyObject object="Definitions"/>

```python file=/concepts/assets/external_assets/single_declaration.py
from dagster import AssetSpec, Definitions, external_asset_from_spec

defs = Definitions(assets=[external_asset_from_spec(AssetSpec("my_asset"))])
```

### External assets with dependencies

External assets can depend on other external assets. You do this by using the `deps` argument of <PyObject object="AssetSpec" />.

```python file=/concepts/assets/external_assets/external_asset_deps.py
from dagster import AssetSpec, Definitions, external_assets_from_specs

asset_one = AssetSpec("asset_one")
asset_two = AssetSpec("asset_two", deps=[asset_one])

defs = Definitions(assets=external_assets_from_specs([asset_one, asset_two]))
```

## Keeping an external asset's metadata up to date.

Since with external assets Dagster does not control scheduling or materialization, it is up to the user to keep the metadata for an external asset up-to-date. There are a number of mechanisms for doing so:

- REST APIs
- Sensors
- Log events in ops

### Using REST API

> TODO: joe

Reviewer: ```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://{organization_name}.dagster.cloud/{deployment_name}/report_asset_materialization/{asset_key}\
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header 'Dagster-Cloud-Api-Token: {user_token}' \
  --data '{
	"data_version": "gitsha",
	"partition": "2021-08-01",
	"description": "an asset materialized externally from dagster",
	"metadata" : {
		"some_key": 100,
		"another_key": "hi"
	}
}'
```

```python
import requests

url = f"https://{organization_name}.dagster.cloud/{deployment_name}/report_asset_materialization/{asset_key}"

payload = {
    "data_version": "testing",
    "partition": "",
    "description": "external asset",
    "metadata": {
        "some_key": 100,
        "another_key": "hi"
    }
}
headers = {
    "Content-Type": "application/json",
    "Dagster-Cloud-Api-Token": USER_TOKEN
}

response = requests.request("POST", url, json=payload, headers=headers)

print(response.text)
```

For OS you can drop the org_name, deployment_name and api token header

Author: > ```shell
> curl --request POST \
>   --url https://{organization_name}.dagster.cloud/{deployment_name}/report_asset_materialization/{asset_key}\
>   --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
>   --header 'Dagster-Cloud-Api-Token: {user_token}' \
>   --data '{
> 	"data_version": "gitsha",
> 	"partition": "2021-08-01",
> 	"description": "an asset materialized externally from dagster",
> 	"metadata" : {
> 		"some_key": 100,
> 		"another_key": "hi"
> 	}
> }'
> ```

where does `asset_key` get specified here?

Author: @Ramshackle-Jamathon still looking for guidance here

Reviewer: @schrockn sorry for the delay updated my initial comment

---
title: External Assets | Dagster
description: External assets model assets in Dagster that are not scheduled or materialized in Dagster.
---

# External assets (Experimental)

An external asset is an asset that is not materialized by Dagster, but is tracked in the asset graph and asset catalog. This allows a user to model assets in Dagster, attach metadata and events to those assets, without scheduling their materialization in data. Example use cases

- Data that is landed by an external source (e.g. a file landing daily in s3)
- Data that is created and processed using manual processes

> - Data that is materialized by existing pipelines with their own scheduling and infrastructure that you do not want to or need to migrate en masse.

Author: I think en masse is important because it's not that people don't to migrate, but they don't want to do it all at once

With an external assets you can:

- Attach metadata to its definition for documentation, tracking ownership, and so on
- Track its data quality in Dagster.
- Track its data version in Dagster
- Schedule downstream assets based on updates to external assets using asset sensors or auto-materialize policies

But you cannot

- Schedule its materialiation
- Backfill it using Dagster
- Use the UI or GraphQL API to instigate ad hoc materializations.

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                             | Description                                                                             |

> | ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

Reviewer 2: after reading down the rest of the page, I can confirm that they are used in examples. It's a bit out of pattern with the other concept pages to include APIs that are used in examples, but not part of the direct API for a specific concept. So perhaps `SensorResult` and `DagsterInstance` get removed?

> | <PyObject object="external_assets_from_specs" /> | Create a list of external asset definitions from a list of specs                        |

Author: I don't think "indicate" is the right word. It does create definition objects.

"Create list of `AssetsDefinition` objects that represent external assets"

?

> | <PyObject object="external_assets_from_specs" /> | Create a list of external asset definitions from a list of specs                        |

Reviewer 2: yeah i like that

| <PyObject object="AssetSpec" />                  | An object that represents the metadata of a particular asset                            |
| <PyObject object="SensorResult" />               | Result object for a sensor evalation where you pass events to attach to external assets |
| <PyObject object="DagsterInstance" />            | Object presenting the Dagster instance                                                  |

## Defining External Assets

### A single external asset

The following code declares a single external asset and passes it to <PyObject object="Definitions"/>

```python file=/concepts/assets/external_assets/single_declaration.py
from dagster import AssetSpec, Definitions, external_asset_from_spec

defs = Definitions(assets=[external_asset_from_spec(AssetSpec("my_asset"))])
```

> 

Reviewer 3: +1

A lot of our concept docs include a section about what the UI will look like for a given thing + how to use it in the UI. We could add a section similar to [this one](https://docs.dagster.io/concepts/assets/software-defined-assets#viewing-and-materializing-assets-in-the-ui), titled something like `External assets in the Dagster UI`

> 

Author: I have to focus on demo preparation so I need  to press on and delegate enriching this to someone else. @jamiedemaria could you pick this up?

### External assets with dependencies

External assets can depend on other external assets. You do this by using the `deps` argument of <PyObject object="AssetSpec" />.

```python file=/concepts/assets/external_assets/external_asset_deps.py
from dagster import AssetSpec, Definitions, external_assets_from_specs

asset_one = AssetSpec("asset_one")
asset_two = AssetSpec("asset_two", deps=[asset_one])

defs = Definitions(assets=external_assets_from_specs([asset_one, asset_two]))
```

## Keeping an external asset's metadata up to date.

Since with external assets Dagster does not control scheduling or materialization, it is up to the user to keep the metadata for an external asset up-to-date. There are a number of mechanisms for doing so:

> - REST APIs

Reviewer 3: +1

> - REST APIs

Author: Similar comment to above, I'd love some help on this.

- Sensors
- Log events in ops

### Using REST API

> Dagster OSS exposes a REST endpoint for reporting asset materializations.

Author: Yes for sure available on Cloud. I need to add a separate example for Cloud as the URL and parameters are slightly different. @erinkcochran87 what is the best practice here?

Here's an example `curl` command in a shell script.
```
curl --request POST \
  --url https://path/to/instance/report_asset_materialization/{asset_key}\
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
	"metadata" : {
		"source": "From curl command,
	}
}'
```

> Here's an example of invoking this API in Python with `requests`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's an example of invoking this API in Python with `requests` to add metadata to the "my_asset" asset:
```

and then fill in the url with the asset key 

```python
url = "https://path/to/instance/report_asset_materialization/my_asset"
```

imo this example is more useful with the asset key filled out. also if it matched whatever asset name is used in the first example, that'd be nice for continuity too

Author: I don't really agree with this. I like it when it is crystal what needs to be parameterized.

```python
import requests

url = f"https://path/to/instance/report_asset_materialization/{asset_key}"
payload = { "metadata": { "source": "From python script" } }
headers = { "Content-Type": "application/json" }

response = requests.request("POST", url, json=payload, headers=headers)
```

> There are also end points for reporting asset observations and asset check evaluations.

Reviewer 2: Do we have these endpoints documented anywhere?

Reviewer 3: +1

It feels weird to include this info and then not expand on it or link to supporting docs. If we don't have docs or examples for these yet (and won't before launch) I suggest we remove this bit until we do

Author: The docs don't exist yet @Ramshackle-Jamathon @alangenfeld one of you two should do that this week

### Using Sensors

> You can generate events to attach to external assets and provide them to sensors directly, by using the `asset_events` param of \<PyObject object="SensorResult/>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can generate events to attach to external assets and provide them to sensors directly, by using the `asset_events` param of <PyObject object="SensorResult />.
```
something funky happening with the rendering of this PyObject, I think removing the leading / will fix

> You can generate events to attach to external assets and provide them to sensors directly, by using the `asset_events` param of \<PyObject object="SensorResult/>.

Reviewer 2: Since the broader topic of this section is adding metadata to external assets, the switch to talking about events is a bit jarring. I think a sentence that says something like "metadata can be added to external assets by logging AssetMaterialization events for the asset" would help smooth the transition

Author: Well adding metadata is one reason why you would do this, but it is not the only reason. I think the suggestion makes it sound like it is the singular reason

Reviewer 2: ah ok, that was unclear to me when reading the page. In that case I think the top level section "Keeping an external asset's metadata up to date" should be updated to mention the other reasons you may do this, and the example sub-sections should at least mention the other things as well. To me, the way it reads now is that this is only for metadata

```python file=/concepts/assets/external_assets/external_asset_using_sensor.py
import datetime

from dagster import (
    AssetMaterialization,
    AssetSpec,
    Definitions,
    SensorResult,
    external_asset_from_spec,
    sensor,
)
from dagster._core.definitions.sensor_definition import SensorEvaluationContext

def utc_now_str() -> str:
    return datetime.datetime.now(datetime.timezone.utc).strftime("%Y-%m-%d, %H:%M:%S")

@sensor()
def keep_external_asset_a_up_to_date(context: SensorEvaluationContext) -> SensorResult:

>     # materialization happened in external system, but is recorded here

Reviewer 2: Should there be some kind of mock check to see if "external_asset_a" has been updated before logging the event?

Author: Yeah I guess there is a balance here between staying super minimal versus being "realistic" I generally prefer in-docs examples that are super minimal and use checked in examples for more realism.

Reviewer 2: yeah I find examples with sensors are particularly hard to find that balance. I think this one is probably ok to keep more generic, but i do still thing the first examples in the top part of the page would benefit from being a bit more realistic

Reviewer 2: one thing on this example though, is that the sensor name "keep_external_asset_a_up_to_date" could imply that the sensor is actually updating the data asset in some way. maybe `update_external_asset_a_metadata`?

Reviewer 2: also, is that pattern we're going to recommend that users have one sensor per external asset if they want to update metadata?

Author: > also, is that pattern we're going to recommend that users have one sensor per external asset if they want to update metadata?

No I would imagine that most of the time sensors will be used to track sets of assets or all the exhaust from a particular external system.

Author: > one thing on this example though, is that the sensor name "keep_external_asset_a_up_to_date" could imply that the sensor is actually updating the data asset in some way. maybe update_external_asset_a_metadata?

Hmmm I guess this depends on how we frame the term "external asset". Does that refer to the represent of the external asset within Dagster, or the physical extenral asset? 

In my mind it was the representation within the Dagster, hence the name `keep_external_asset_a_up_to_date`. Curious what others think. I don't have super strong conviction here so very open to persuasion.

Reviewer 2: > No I would imagine that most of the time sensors will be used to track sets of assets or all the exhaust from a particular external system.

mentioning that as a best practice would be nice. That seems like a question users will have pretty quickly 

> Hmmm I guess this depends on how we frame the term "external asset". Does that refer to the represent of the external asset within Dagster, or the physical external asset?

My initial interpretation was that it was the physical data asset, so definitely interested to see what other people think

    return SensorResult(
        asset_events=[
            AssetMaterialization(
                asset_key="external_asset_a",
                metadata={
                    "source": f'From sensor "{context.sensor_name}" at UTC time "{utc_now_str()}"'
                },
            )
        ]
    )

defs = Definitions(
    assets=[external_asset_from_spec(AssetSpec("external_asset_a"))],
    sensors=[keep_external_asset_a_up_to_date],
)
```

### Using the Python API

> Users can insert events to attach to external assets directly from Dagster's Python API. The relevant API is `report_runless_asset_event` on \<PyObject object="DagsterInstance/>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users can insert events to attach to external assets directly from Dagster's Python API. The relevant API is `report_runless_asset_event` on <PyObject object="DagsterInstance />.
```
same rending issues with this one

Author: Fixed already 👍🏻

> Users can insert events to attach to external assets directly from Dagster's Python API. The relevant API is `report_runless_asset_event` on \<PyObject object="DagsterInstance/>.

Reviewer 2: An example of when/where you would use this API would be useful. I could see users thinking they need to call this from within an asset

---
title: External Assets | Dagster
description: External assets model assets in Dagster that are not scheduled or materialized in Dagster.
---

> # External assets (Experimental)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# External Assets (Experimental)
```

An external asset is an asset that is not materialized by Dagster, but is tracked in the asset graph and asset catalog. This allows you to model assets in Dagster, attach metadata and events to those assets, but without scheduling their materialization with Dagster.

Example use cases:

> - Data that is landed by an external source (e.g. a external file landing daily; Kafka landing data into s3)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Data landed by an external source (e.g. a external file landing daily; Kafka landing data into Amazon S3)
```

> - Data that is created and processed using manual processes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Data created and processed using manual processes
```

> - Data that is materialized by existing pipelines with their own scheduling and infrastructure that you do not want to or need to migrate en masse.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Data materialized by existing pipelines with their own scheduling and infrastructure that you do not want to or need to migrate en masse.
```

With an external assets you can:

- Attach metadata to its definition for documentation, tracking ownership, and so on
- Track its data quality in Dagster.
- Track its data version in Dagster
- Schedule downstream assets based on updates to external assets using asset sensors or auto-materialize policies

> But you cannot
> 
> - Schedule its materialiation
> - Backfill it using Dagster
> - Use the UI or GraphQL API to instigate ad hoc materializations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You cannot, however:

- Schedule an external asset's materialiation
- Backfill an external asset using Dagster
- Use the Dagster UI or GraphQL API to instigate ad hoc materializations.
```

Suggesting a few tweaks here. I found reading the intro a bit awkward due to how the info is chunked + worded, but this may help with flow.

## Relevant APIs

| Name                                             | Description                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <PyObject object="external_assets_from_specs" /> | Create a list of external asset definitions from a list of specs |
| <PyObject object="AssetSpec" />                  | An object that represents the metadata of a particular asset     |

## Defining External Assets

### A single external asset

> The following code declares a single external asset and passes it to <PyObject object="Definitions"/>

Reviewer 3: I think it's helpful to describe what the example uses + what it does, even if it the code makes it seem obvious. Ex:

> Using `external_asset_from_spec`, you can declare a single asset and pass it to a `Definitions` object:

Or something along those lines.

```

### External assets with dependencies

External assets can depend on other external assets. You do this by using the `deps` argument of <PyObject object="AssetSpec" />.

```python file=/concepts/assets/external_assets/external_asset_deps.py
from dagster import AssetSpec, Definitions, external_assets_from_specs

asset_one = AssetSpec("asset_one")
asset_two = AssetSpec("asset_two", deps=[asset_one])

defs = Definitions(assets=external_assets_from_specs([asset_one, asset_two]))
```

## Keeping an external asset's metadata up to date.

Since with external assets Dagster does not control scheduling or materialization, it is up to the user to keep the metadata for an external asset up-to-date. There are a number of mechanisms for doing so:

- REST APIs
- Sensors
- Log events in ops

### Using REST API

Dagster OSS exposes a REST endpoint for reporting asset materializations.

Here's an example `curl` command in a shell script.

```bash
curl --request POST \
    --url https://path/to/instance/report_asset_materialization/{asset_key}\
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data '{
    "metadata" : {
        "source": "From curl command
    }
}'
```

> Here's an example of invoking this API in Python with `requests`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following demonstrates invoking the API in Python using the `requests` library:
```

Suggesting we also make this a bit more formal

```python
import requests

url = f"https://path/to/instance/report_asset_materialization/{asset_key}"
payload = { "metadata": { "source": "From python script" } }
headers = { "Content-Type": "application/json" }

response = requests.request("POST", url, json=payload, headers=headers)
```

There are also end points for reporting asset observations and asset check evaluations.

> ### Using Sensors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Using sensors
```

No capitalization needed

You can generate events to attach to external assets and provide them to sensors directly, by using the `asset_events` param of <PyObject object="SensorResult"/>.

```python file=/concepts/assets/external_assets/external_asset_using_sensor.py
import datetime

from dagster import (
    AssetMaterialization,
    AssetSpec,
    Definitions,
    SensorEvaluationContext,
    SensorResult,
    external_asset_from_spec,
    sensor,
)

def utc_now_str() -> str:
    return datetime.datetime.now(datetime.timezone.utc).strftime("%Y-%m-%d, %H:%M:%S")

@sensor()
def keep_external_asset_a_up_to_date(context: SensorEvaluationContext) -> SensorResult:
    # Materialization happened in external system, but is recorded here
    return SensorResult(
        asset_events=[
            AssetMaterialization(
                asset_key="external_asset_a",
                metadata={
                    "source": f'From sensor "{context.sensor_name}" at UTC time "{utc_now_str()}"'
                },
            )
        ]
    )

defs = Definitions(
    assets=[external_asset_from_spec(AssetSpec("external_asset_a"))],
    sensors=[keep_external_asset_a_up_to_date],
)
```

### Using the Python API

> Users can insert events to attach to external assets directly from Dagster's Python API. An example where this would be useful is writing a handrolled Python script to backfill metadata. The relevant API is `report_runless_asset_event` on <PyObject object="DagsterInstance"/>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can insert events to attach to external assets directly from Dagster's Python API. An example where this would be useful is writing a hand-rolled Python script to backfill metadata. The relevant API is `report_runless_asset_event` on <PyObject object="DagsterInstance"/>.
```

```python file=/concepts/assets/external_assets/external_asset_events_using_python_api.py startafter=start_python_api_marker endbefore=end_python_api_marker dedent=4
from dagster import AssetMaterialization

# instance is a DagsterInstance. Get using DagsterInstance.get()
instance.report_runless_asset_event(
    AssetMaterialization(
        "asset_one", metadata={"nrows": 10, "source": "From this script."}
    )
)
```

> ### Log events in unrelated ops

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Logging events in unrelated ops
```

> A user can log an <PyObject object="AssetMaterialization"/> from a bare op. In this case we use the `log_event` method of <PyObject object="OpExecutionContext"/> to report an asset materialization of an external asset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can log an <PyObject object="AssetMaterialization"/> from a bare op. In this case, use the `log_event` method of <PyObject object="OpExecutionContext"/> to report an asset materialization of an external asset.
```

```python file=/concepts/assets/external_assets/update_external_asset_via_op.py
from dagster import (
    AssetMaterialization,
    AssetSpec,
    Definitions,
    OpExecutionContext,
    external_asset_from_spec,
    job,
    op,
)

@op
def an_op(context: OpExecutionContext) -> None:
    context.log_event(AssetMaterialization(asset_key="external_asset"))

@job
def a_job() -> None:
    an_op()

defs = Definitions(
    assets=[external_asset_from_spec(AssetSpec("external_asset"))], jobs=[a_job]
)
```

> ### What about Source Assets?

Reviewer 3: Should this be all the way at the end of the page? I feel like this is info I'd want before I totally dive in.

Author: Hmmm ok I went back and forth on this. It is also completely irrelevant to a fresh user.

Author: Moved to top. We'll see how that sits.
